##NARCCAP

State, national and international assessment reports (ARs) are growing in their importance to provide a scientific resource for the understanding and assessment of climate change and its impacts crucial for economic and political decision-making. A core element of these ARs is the model projections that not only provide a foretelling of future climate but also indirectly provide information on societal impacts. These quantitative projections are based on multi-component, coupled dynamical global and regional climate models (GCMs and RCMs). Because of the critical input such models have to assessments, it is a high priority to bring as much observational scrutiny to them as possible. This requires the systematic application of observations from gridded satellite- and reanalysis products as well as in-situ networks.  Enabling such multi-variate evaluations is essential for advancing model development, and performing quantitative model comparison, evaluation, uncertainty analyses, and constructing model ensembles.  

While systematic multi-model experimentation and evaluation have been undertaken for years and in many facets for global-scale assessments (e.g., CMIP, IPCC), the development and application of infrastructure for a systematic, observation-based evaluation of RCMs is less mature, with a significant portion of satellite and other data being highly underutilized.  To address this need, we have developed a Regional Climate Model Evaluation System (RCMES) that can serve as a key infrastructure element of the NCA process by facilitating a systematic and comprehensive evaluation of RCMs that are key to the US NCA process.  Our input to the NCA includes a description of RCMES capabilities and future development plans as well as an illustrative application of its capabilities through the evaluation of 5 RCMs that contributed to the [North America Regional Climate Change Assessment Program (NARCCAP)](http://www.narccap.ucar.edu/).  

The RCMES-based model evaluation is performed on multi-decadal hindcast experiments from 5 RCM contributions to NARCCAP.  The evaluation focuses on the fidelity of the RCMs to simulate the monthly-mean surface air temperatures and precipitation over the conterminous U.S. region. The findings illustrate a number of systematic errors in the models’ abilities to represent these key climatological features. For example, all RCMs show warm biases in the annual-mean climatology in the Great Plains and the California Central Valley and cold biases in the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coastal regions, respectively. The warm biases over the Great Plains region occurs for both summer and winter. While individual models exhibited considerable errors in other regions, no other regions exhibit systematic biases in temperature across all the models.  

All the RCMs generate common errors in simulating the annual-mean precipitation; these include wet biases in the mountainous northwestern part of the western U.S. and dry biases in the Gulf of Mexico and southern Great Plains regions. Evaluated in terms of the RMSE normalized by the annual-mean values, all RCMs show better performance over the eastern half of the conterminous U.S. than in the western half. All RCMs show notably low skill in simulating precipitation over the inland Pacific Northwest region, east of the Cascades, for all seasons and in the Arizona-western New Mexico in summer. The latter suggests that all RCMs suffer difficulties in simulating precipitation related with the North American monsoon circulation, an important concern for the ecosystems and water supply for the region. For both surface temperatures and precipitation, the model ensemble is among the best performers for all metrics, regions, and seasons. The systematic variations in model errors according to regions, seasons, variables, and metrics found in this study suggest that bias correction, a key step in applying model data to assess the impact of climate change on various sectors, may have to be performed differently for regions, seasons, variables, and assessment models.

These initial results point to the need for more comprehensive assessment of the underlying modeled physical processes with additional quantities (e.g. macro and microphysical characteristics of clouds, radiation, energy and water budget components, hydrology measures) that can help identify the specific model processes in need of improvement.  In many cases these data exist and simply need to be applied systematically to RCM evaluation.  Additional improvement and model realism is expected to also come with expected increases in model resolutions – although the funding support to perform these high resolution simulations need to be made available.  In this case, obtaining high-quality, fine-resolution (sub-10 km) reference data from observational and/or observation-informed assimilation data will be key to future model evaluation, and may necessitate investments in new observation systems which can provide key information for model process development, improvement and evaluation. 

In addition to enhanced resolution and more comprehensive measurements for model development and evaluation, comes the need for the development of more insightful model diagnostics, and a process to identify a set of key performance metrics that can be applied routinely to models to assess their simulation fidelity over time (e.g. from one model version to the next, and one assessment to the next).  Finally, closer collaboration between the climate modeling and impact assessment communities is also crucial to advance the efficacy of the assessment process, particularly as it focuses more on regional/local scale climate change impacts and planning.
