# ExArch

The multinational and multi-institutional collaborative ExArch project aims to build a database, develop software tools and to take advantage of hardware improvements for evaluating and analyzing climate data from models and observations on the basis of existing and to-be developed information technology capabilities at the participating institutions. The database and software toolkit will be used to examine the performance of individual climate models and their ensembles in simulating climate variables (e.g., temperature, precipitation, atmospheric circulation) and their statistical properties (e.g., extreme events, spatial- and temporal variability).

The primary task of the RCMES team involves Drs. [Waliser](../about/team) and [Kim](../about/team) participating on the project via their affiliations with the [Joint Institute for Regional Earth System Science and Engineering (JIFRESSE)](https://jifresse.ucla.edu/) at UCLA. Further, the team's task involves building links between ExArch and the databases and software that are being developed collaboratively by the members of the team at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, and by those at UCLA JIFRESSE. The software will be used for the analysis and diagnosis of CMIP5 global and regional climate models. These resources include a number of global satellite reanalysis data sets designed specifically for the evaluation of CMIP5 output (e.g., Taylor et al., 2011) and RCM output as well as analysis tools for comparing regional model output with the observational resources referred to as the Regional Climate Model Evaluation System (RCMES). This work will facilitate the access to these JPL/NASA databases, especially the suite of spaceborne remote sensing products, by the ExArch user community, without the redundant and time consuming need of performing a myriad of download, reformat, conversion and common analysis steps. As part of this effort, JIFRESSE members of the team also participate in the research on the impact of climate change on the hydro climate in the regions that are affected strongly by cold climate with an emphasis on the climate fields that affect water resources. The climate change study will be closely coordinate with the project members and the ongoing climate change programs, such as the COordinated Regional Downscaling EXperiment (CORDEX).
